SPLIT: identifies residents of group quarters containing more than 60 people  
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SPLIT#description_section

SPANNAME: identifies persons with Spanish surnames
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SPANNAME#description_section

SCHOOL: indicates whether the respondent attended school 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SCHOOL#description_section

RESPONDT: indicates if this row was a person who completed the form themselves (if they were a respondant) 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/RESPONDT#description_section

URBAN: indicates whether a household's location was urban or rural.
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/URBAN#description_section

SLREC: indicates whether the respondent was asked additional, more detailed questions
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SLREC#description_section

VETWWI: indicates WWI veteran status
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/VETWWI#description_section

SSENROLL: indicates whether the respondant has a SSN
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SSENROLL#description_section

SEX: reports whether the person was male or female.
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SEX#description_section

LABFORCE: indicates whether a person participated in the labor force.
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/LABFORCE#description_section

OWNERSHP: indicates whether the housing unit was rented or owned
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/OWNERSHP#description_section

FARM: indicates farm households
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/FARM#description_section

METRO: indicates whether the household resided within a metropolitan area
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/METRO#description_section

EMPSTAT: indicates the respondant's employment status
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/EMPSTAT#description_section

HISPAN: identifies persons of Hispanic/Spanish/Latino origin 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/HISPAN#description_section

CITIZEN: reports the citizenship status of respondents
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CITIZEN#description_section

WARD: identifies the political ward where the household was enumerated
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/WARD#description_section

NATIVITY: indicates whether respondents were native-born or foreign-born
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/NATIVITY#description_section

WKSWORK2: the number of weeks that the respondent worked during the previous year
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/WKSWORK2#description_section

GQ: indicates whether the person lived in group quarters (ex: dorm, barracks, prison, nursing home) 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/GQ#description_section

NCHLT5: counts the number of own children age 4 and under residing with each individual
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/NCHLT5#description_section

RACE: indicates persons race
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/RACE#description_section

MARST: gives each person's current marital status
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MARST#description_section

VET1940: indicates veteran status
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/VET1940#description_section 

VETPER: reports the period of military service
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/VETPER#description_section

HISPRULE: reports why a person was coded as Spanish/Hispanic/Latino
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/HISPRULE#description_section

HRSWORK2: total number of hours the respondent was at work during the previous week
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/HRSWORK2#description_section

UCLASSWK: person's "usual" class of work
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/UCLASSWK#description_section

SAMESEA5:  reports whether the respondent lived in the same State Economic Area (SEA) 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SAMESEA5#description_section

VETSTAT: indicates veteran status
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/VETSTAT#description_section

GQTYPE: indicates group quarters type
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/GQTYPE#description_section

VETCHILD: indicates whether father was a veteran
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/VETCHILD#description_section

CLASSWKR: indicates whether self-employed
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CLASSWKR#description_section

MIGTYPE5:indicates whether the respondent lived in a metropolitan area five years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGTYPE5#description_section

MARRNO: indicates number of marriages respondant has had
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MARRNO#description_section

INCNONWG: indicates non-wage income
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/INCNONWG#description_section

MIGRATE: indicates whether a preson had migrated  

SAMEPLAC: indicates whether individuals were living in the same community 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SAMEPLAC#description_section

OWNERSHPD: indicates home ownership 

FAMSIZE: counts the number of own family members residing with each individual
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/FAMSIZE#description_section

SIZEPL: indicates size of town/city of residence
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SIZEPL#description_section

EMPSTATD: indicates employment status 

WKSWORK1: number of weeks worked the previous year
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/WKSWORK1#description_section

SEA: State Economic Area
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SEA#description_section

OCCSCORE: a constructed variable that assigns occupational income scores to each occupation
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/OCCSCORE#description_section

AGEMARR: reports the respondent's age at first marriage.
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/AGEMARR#description_section

MIGRATE5D: reports on 5 year migration 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGRATE5#description_section

MTONGUE: reports first language (mother tongue) 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MTONGUE#description_section

SEI: a constructed measure that assigns a Duncan Socioeconomic Index (SEI) score to each occupation 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SEI#description_section

CLASSWKRD: indicates self employed status

HRSWORK1: total number of hours the respondent was at work during the previous week
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/HRSWORK1#description_section

VETSTATD: indicates veteran status

EDUC: highest year of school or degree completed
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/EDUC#description_section

GQFUNDS: the funding source for each group quarters.
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/GQFUNDS#description_section

CHBORN: number of children ever born to each woman
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CHBORN#description_section

HIGRADE: highest grade of school attended
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/HIGRADE#description_section

AGEMONTH: reports the age, in months, of persons less than one year old 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/AGEMONTH#description_section

AGE: reports the person's age
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/AGE#description_section

HISPAND: identifies persons of Hispanic/Spanish/Latino origin

RACED: indentifies person's race

SUPDIST: the number of the census supervisory district where the household was located. 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/SUPDIST#description_section

METAREA: identifies the metro area of residence
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/METAREA#description_section

PRESGL: a constructed variable that assigns a Siegel prestige score to each occupation
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/PRESGL#description_section

CNTRY: USA
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CNTRY#description_section

BPL: indicates where the person was born (state, territory or country)
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/BPL#description_section

FBPL: father's birthplace
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/FBPL#description_section

MBPL: mother's birthplace
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MBPL#description_section

IND1950: industry codes according to 1950 system
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/IND1950#description_section

MIGSEA5: the State Economic Area where the respondant lived 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGSEA5#description_section

OCC: indicate's person's occupation
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/OCC#description_section

EDUCD: Higest year of school or degree completed

DURUNEMP: How many weeks has respondant been unemployed
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/DURUNEMP#description_section

UOCC: Respondant's usual occupation
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/UOCC#description_section

IND: Person's industry
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/IND#description_section

UIND: Person's usual industry
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/UIND#description_section

OCC1950: Occupation code according to 1950 system
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/OCC1950#description_section

MIGPLAC5: Identifies state, territory or country where respondant lived 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGPLAC5#description_section

GQTYPED: Type of group quarters

HIGRADED: Highest grade of schooling achieved

UOCC95: Reports usual occupation code according to 1950 system
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/UOCC95#description_section

COUNTY: County
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/COUNTYICP#description_section

ENUMDIST:reports the household's census enumeration district.
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/ENUMDIST#description_section

CITYPOP: population of city of residence
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CITYPOP#description_section

URBPOP: population of urban area of residence
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/URBPOP#description_section

METAREAD: metropolitan area

MTONGUED: first language (mother tongue)

MIGCITY5: the city where the respondent resided 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGCITY5#description_section

ERSCOR50: a constructed variable based on median earned income by occupation 
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/ERSCOR50#description_section

MIGMET5: metropolitan area where the respondent lived 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGMET5#description_section

EDSCOR50: a constructed variable relating education levels and occupation
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/EDSCOR50#description_section

MIGCOUNTY: county where respondant lived 5 years ago
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/MIGCOUNTY#description_section

CITY: City of residence
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/CITY#description_section

NPBOSS50: Nam-Powers-Boyd occupational status score
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/NPBOSS50#description_section

RENT: How much household pays in rent
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/RENT#description_section

FBPLD: Father's birth place

MBPLD: Mother's birth place

BPLD: Respondant's birth place

INCWAGE: Each respondent's total pre-tax wage and salary income
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/INCWAGE#description_section

VALUEH:
 How much the respondant's house is worth
https://usa.ipums.org/usa-action/variables/VALUEH#description_section
